Envy, the Jealous, is a shape-shifting homunculus whose preferred form is that of an androgynous looking teenage young man. 
While Envy can assume its actual form of an enormous leviathan creature, its body pulsing the faces of the Cselkcess citizens who constitute their stone, Envy's true form is revealed to be a tiny reptile-like parasitic creature once enough of its stone is heavily dwindled.
Envy serves as an infiltrator for the other homunculi, often assuming another's identity to gain sensitive intel or for manipulation purposes.
Envy is also a sadist who enjoys inflicting pain on humans, having caused the Ishvalan Civil War by impersonating a soldier to murder an Ishvalan child.
First seen impersonating Father Cornello and burning down the Fifth Laboratory, Envy personally murdered Maes Hughes while framing Maria Ross for the crime. 
But, after Mustang kills Lust, Envy takes over as the homunculus' liaison while recruiting Kimblee to capture Dr. Marcoh. 
However, Envy is lured into a trap with its stone nearly destroyed by Marcoh and being forced into its true form while being handed over to May Chang in a glass jar for her to take back to Xing. 
Later, Envy plays on May's compassion to trick her into taking it to Central so it can reconstitute its body, doing so by absorbing several of the Mannequin Soldiers for their Philosopher's Stones.
Soon after, Mustang confronts Envy and, upon the Homunculus gleefully admitting to being Hughes' murderer, falls into a furious rampage, hunting it down. Finally cornering Envy while it is fighting Riza, Mustang repeatedly incinerates the homunculus until it is reduced back to its powerless state. 
Envy is then spared from Mustang's revenge-driven wrath when Edward, Scar, and Riza convince him not to kill the creature.
When Envy makes an attempt to implode its captors' alliance by reminding them all of their past actions against each other, it snapped when Edward deduces that Envy is jealous of humans for their ability to persevere through tragedy and form new connections with each other in spite of bad circumstances. 
Upset and humiliated, Envy commits suicide by tearing out its Philosopher's Stone core and crushing it rather than live with the knowledge that a lowly human understood its personal plight.