Father is the creator and leader of the other homunculi, and the series' main antagonist. 
He is a cruel and greedy homunculus with no regard for human life, likening them to insects.
He was originally known as The Dwarf in the Flask or Homunculus, a shapeshifter cyclops-like creature created eight centuries ago in the country of Xerxes under the commission of its king to obtain infinite knowledge.
Unable to survive outside his flask, Homunculus formed an attachment to the young slave boy whose blood had been used in his creation, naming the lad Van Hohenheim while helping him rise in Xerxian society by teaching him to read, write and alchemy. 
But Homunculus grew envious of the human race over their mutual emotional support for each other while being the only one of his kind, losing sight of his own gifts and talents while playing on the desperate King's desire for immortality. 
He tricks the king into creating a country-wide transmutation circle for the creation of a Philosopher's Stone, whose necessary ingredient is the souls of several living human beings. 
Once activated, Homunculus ensured that he and the unaware Hohenheim were in the center to absorb the souls of the Xerxian population between them. 
During the process, Homunculus used Hohenheim's blood within him to create a humanoid husk body to serve as his mobile vessel before parting ways.
After searching for the nearest area closest to the center of the world, the now prideful and greedy Homunculus established Amestris under the title of The Eastern Sage and taught alchemy to its people for the sake of his master plan: engineering every war in the country's history to bring it into the form of a perfect circle with sites of bloody carnage at all the cardinal points—the necessary configuration for the transmutation of another Philosopher's Stone and repeat his actions in Xerxes on a higher scale to open the Gate and become a perfect being with absolute freedom and all the knowledge by absorbing God. 
Father then attempted to purge out his cardinal sins as a means to elevate himself, creating his homunculi offspring to gain a family. 
Father then uses his homunculi to gather sacrifices, alchemists of notable skill who attempted human transmutation and survived and gained knowledge of the Truth; these sacrifices are necessary for Father's plan to work.
As an additional precaution against alchemists, Father stationed himself underground above the tectonic plates so that he can negate any form of alchemy that derives its power from tectonic energy.
Having left the eyes of the Amestrian public, referred to as the Good Gentleman by his human subordinates, Father keeps in touch with the country's highest-ranking human officials to maintain the country's growth under his absolute authority and control.
Eventually, Father's plans come to fruition on the Promised Day as the Nation-Wide Transmutation Circle can only be activated during a solar eclipse (the sun symbolizes a man, and the moon symbolizes a woman, with an eclipse representing a perfect being). 
Father manages to restrain his sacrifices and so he can gather enough souls into his body from Amestris's people to absorb the trans-dimensional entity beyond the Gate which he called God. 
From there, Father creates a new youthful body with his powers increased to the point of defying natural order and tries to get rid of the human sacrifices. 
But Hohenheim's transmutation circle restored the Amestrians' souls to their bodies with Father starting to lose control over the entity within him and limiting his strength.
Furthermore, with Scar removing his ability to block the Amestrians' alchemy, Father is weakened when attacked by all sides. 
After Edward manages to pierce Father's chest to free the remaining trapped souls that consisted of his dwindled Philosopher's Stone, God proceeds to turn Father inside out and drags him before the gate. 
As he is taken away, Father laments the harshness of reality, crying out that he does not understand why reality denies him getting his greatest desires and true freedom being so impossible to achieve. 
At his personal Gate of Truth and reduced to his original form, Father is confronted by Truth. 
There he complains about why God has rejected him and that he only wanted perfection, all the worlds knowledge for himself. 
Truth then poetically punishes Father by letting the gate drag him back into it (where he was presumably created from), thus letting Father stand in God's place in some senses whilst stripping Father completely of the freedom he cherished, but not before admonishing the homunculus for having learnt nothing and having never grown from his days in the flask.