Izumi Curtis is the short-tempered, buxom and caring alchemy teacher of the Elric brothers who is also a butcher at her family business Curtis Meats. 
She agreed to train the brothers to hone their alchemical abilities after their mother died. 
She expands their training with a regimen of philosophy, martial arts, and living off the land.
Her methods are derived from her own alchemy training: she was forced to survive in the northern region surrounding Briggs Fortress for a month (although it turns out she succeeded by stealing supplies from the northern fortress). 
She thinks of the Elrics as her own sons, and although she severs her student-teacher ties with them after learning of their attempts with human transmutation (and Ed's joining the State Military), she continues to do all she can to help them. 
She can be quite violent when punishing or sparring with the Elric brothers, so they tend to be deathly afraid of her. 
Her claim "I'm a housewife!" is what she will often casually declare herself as one whenever someone asks who she is. 
This is due to her distaste of the alchemist profession. 
Izumi and her husband Sig were expecting a child years before the start of the series; however, their son was stillborn. 
Izumi tried and failed to revive the child through human transmutation. 
The failed attempt took some of her reproductive organs, resulting in her inability to ever again be pregnant, and to periodically vomit blood as well as leave her weak, the latter much to others' disgust. 
Izumi could thereafter perform alchemy without a transmutation circle, because in the failed transmutation she saw the Truth.
Izumi attracts the attention of the State Military for having survived the failed human transmutation. 
As she and her husband travel around Amestris in order to avoid the military, they eventually meet Ed and Al's father Van Hohenheim. 
He rearranges her insides to ease the blood flow, and persuades her to help collaborate in bringing down the State Military. 
Thereafter, she is never again seen coughing up blood. 
She has a tattoo of a Flamel on her left breast.