Major Solf J. Kimblee — the Crimson Alchemist" —is a sadistic sociopath with an artistic flair for destruction. He earned fame during the Ishbalan Civil War for his ruthless commitment to the mass slaughter of the Ishbalan people while laying many villages to waste. Using transmutation circles tattooed into the palms of his hands, Kimblee can make a bomb out of anything he comes into contact with after clapping his hands. Kimblee's effectiveness allowed him to use an imperfect Philosopher's Stone to amplify his alchemical abilities, using it to wipe out Scar's family. But as the war ended, Kimblee killed his commanding officers when they attempt to take back the stone and he was sentenced to prison, as a result. Kimblee is later released by the homunculi to assist in hunting down Scar and retrieving Tim Marcoh, though the Elric Brothers thwarted his attempts. Kimblee is also instructed to instigate a bloody conflict on the Drachmanian border to complete the Nationwide Transmutation Circle, feigning himself as a defector to trick the Drachma people into being led to slaughter during a full-scale attack on the fortress of Briggs. Kimblee later frees Pride from the earthen dome that Hohenheim trapped him in, only to be fatally wounded by his former chimera subordinates in the ensuing and consumed by Pride moments later. But Kimblee's sadistic nature allowed him to maintain his sense of self within Pride's stone, briefly manifesting himself to stop the homunculus from taking over Edward's body. Despite his crimes against humanity, Kimblee is a gentleman outside of fighting and willing to engage in philosophical discussions about morals. Kimblee has a Darwinist worldview, but he has immense respect for anyone who adheres to their principles in the face of death, as he loathes hypocrisy. During the civil war, he briefly berates a guilt-ridden Mustang for the latter's self-pity despite having freely chosen to become a state alchemist, advising him to remember the people he has killed not out of guilt, but out of accountability. His advice ultimately helps renew Mustang's resolve to aim for the top.