Eren's father and Mikasa's guardian. 
He is a renowned medical doctor who was well respected in the District of Shiganshina after he saved the village from a devastating plague.
He also provides a house call medical service to the people of Shiganshina and to various towns in addition to having a network of contacts within the Corps of the Shiganshina district.
Though Eren and the others believed he went into hiding after the fall of Wall Maria, they later learned that Grisha was more than he appeared. 
Grisha's life story is later revealed from his memoir books and Eren's inherited memories — he is an ethnic Eldian from Marley's Liberio Internment Zone, having been disillusioned with his father since the cover-up of his younger sister's death by a Public Security officer named Gross and joining the Eldian Restorationists seven years later. 
Grisha married Dina Fritz and they had a son named Zeke, whom he attempted to use in a scheme to acquire the Founding Titan by having him participate in Marley's Warrior program. 
But he was instead sold out by Zeke with him, Dina and all the Restorationists sentenced to exile in Paradis as Pure Titans. 
Grisha is then saved by Eren Kruger, who slaughters the Marleyan guards and gives him the Attack Titan to carry out the mission to capture the Founding Titan.
After making his way to Wall Maria where he met Keith Shadis, Grisha settled in Shiganshina and became a local hero after curing the townspeople of the plague while starting a new family with Carla and their son Eren. 
While Grisha tracked down the Reiss family, he made no attempt on them until the day of Wall Maria's fall when he begged Frieda to stop the Titan invasion and save Shiganshina. 
When Frieda refuses, Grisha is metaphysically manipulated via a future version of Eren into devouring her for the Founding Titan and slaughtering most of her family.
While horrified from seeing future events after being devoured by his son as a Pure Titan, Grisha finds Eren at a Trost refugee camp and gives his son the key to their house's basement where he hid the "truth" before injecting him with Titan serum.
Eren suffered amnesia after inheriting Grisha's Titan power until he touched Historia Reiss, ashamed of his father's actions while Historia later came to her own conclusion that Grisha may have had a logical reason for killing her half-sister.
After the Survey Corps' pyrrhic victory at Shiganshina and the recapture of Wall Maria, Eren, Mikasa, Levi and Hange reach Grisha's basement and find three books written by Grisha inside a hidden drawer containing a photograph of Grisha with his first family, and the truth that humanity is not only extant, but also thriving outside the Walls.
The information from Grisha's memoir is later released to the public by Historia's order. 
While Zeke attempted to use the Founding Titan to convince Eren that their father manipulated them, he unknowingly allowed his half-brother to manipulate Grisha who begs Zeke's forgiveness while beseeching him to stop Eren.