Reiner is a member of the Marleyan military's Warrior Unit and is the holder of the Armored Titan.
As the leader of the infiltration unit responsible for Marley's opening offensive against the Walls on the island of Paradis, he serves as one of the main antagonists for most of the story. 
Reiner is introduced as a cadet of the 104th Training Corps who graduates 2nd in his class. 
Described by instructor Keith Shadis as being strong as an ox and a natural leader, he quickly earns the trust of the Paradisian Survey Corps and infiltrated their ranks.
As a child, Reiner joined Marley's Warrior Unit so he and his Eldian mother could become honorary Marleyans and be reunited with his Marleyan father.
Despite being rejected by his birth father, the fanatical patriotism instilled in him by his mother motivates him to move forward with his mission to capture the Founding Titan (aka the Coordinate) from Paradis Island.
When the group leader, Marcel, is unexpectedly eaten during their journey, Reiner assumes command over the remaining two Warriors, Annie and Bertolt.
They flood Shiganshina with rampaging 'Pure Titans' by destroying the outer gate of the District then breaking through the gate at Wall Maria.
They then disguise themselves as refugees and join the masses of people within Wall Rose before joining the Paradisian military.
Unable to pinpoint the Coordinate's location, Reiner orchestrates an attack on Wall Rose to root out its holder.
Upon witnessing Eren transform into a titan during the ensuing battle of Trost, Reiner suspects him of possessing the Coordinate and tasks Annie with his capture.
However, the plan ultimately ends in failure[ch. 30] and Annie is taken captive.
As Marley launches another offensive against Paradis, Reiner divulges his mission to Eren and begs him to leave Paradis with him and Bertolt to prevent further bloodshed. 
When Eren refuses, Reiner and Bertolt transform and attempt to extract him by force. 
However, they are thwarted by the rest of the Survey Corps and are forced to retreat, taking with them fellow corps member Ymir instead. 
Reiner and Bertolt regroup with Zeke Yeager, holder of the Beast Titan, and his forces consisting of Pure Titans. 
In the Battle of Shiganshina, Reiner is defeated but rescued by Zeke and his allies.
Later, in 854, Reiner is revealed to have become disillusioned with his cause after watching so many of his comrades die in vain for Marley's expansionism. 
While visiting with his family, he attempts suicide after hearing his unit will once again be sent back to Paradis to seize the Coordinate, but changes his mind in order to protect the young Warrior Candidates. 
When Eren attacks Liberio and its inhabitants, Reiner fights against his old "friend" while saving the lives of fellow Warriors Porco Galliard and Falco Grice.
Afterwards, he plans an assault on Paradis with the goal of forever neutralizing Eren as a threat. 
However, the operation ultimately ends in disaster when Eren begins the Rumbling. 
While temporarily driven to despair, he finds a new sense of purpose upon being invited by his cousin, Gabi, and the remains of the Survey Corps to lend them his support in stopping Eren. 
In the Battle of Heaven and Earth, Reiner engages in battle with countless Titans, and with the help of the alliance, defeats Eren and eradicates the Titans from this world. 
As a result, he loses his Armored Titan powers and was able to return to living a long life as a human. 
Three years later, he heads to Paradis Island along with Armin and the Alliance as ambassadors for peace