Months before the assault on Liberio, the Scouts arrived on the Marley shoreline. 
On their way to visit Azumabito at her home, they witness the persecution received by Subjects of Ymir firsthand after rescuing a young thief named Ramzi from a mob of Marleyans. 
Azumabito informs the group that Marley has begun cracking down on Subjects of Ymir who escape their internment camps through use of blood tests. 
Hange hopes to forge peace by allying with the Subjects of Ymir Protection Group. 
Discovering that Eren has gone missing, Mikasa tracks him down to Ramzi's home. 
Eren questions Mikasa's loyalty to him, asking what he means to her, to which she is taken aback and calls him her family. 
The rest of the group catches up and they spend the night partying with Ramzi's family. 
The next day at the Protection Group's assembly, the representative of the Protection Group declares that Subjects of Ymir who don't view themselves as Eldian should be freed, while the "devils" of Paradis should be exterminated, which receives cheers from the audience. 
Eren departs and doesn't contact the Scouts again until the assault on Liberio. 
Mikasa ruminates on that time and wonders if different choices had been made, could things have turned out differently. 
Flashbacks reveal Eren meeting Yelena and agreeing to follow Zeke's euthanasia plan while actually informing Floch and Historia of his real plans, with the latter initially opposing him before choosing to become pregnant to extend her and Zeke's lifetime thus indirectly aiding Eren, and Zeke telling him that Ackermans are not compelled by blood to protect a host and that Mikasa is devoted to him simply because she loves him. 
Eren tells Zeke that he wants his friends to live long, happy lives after his death. 
In the present, the Global Alliance makes a futile attempt with their navy to stop Eren and the Rumbling from reaching Marley. 
They are easily destroyed by the Titans and Eren declares his intention to destroy the world as he and the Colossal Titans set foot on the mainland.